[ADD] Productivity: IoT - Windows IoT doc (#4025)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/iot/config/windows_iot.rst

===============================================================

> Use Windows IoT software to connect devices to an Odoo database

Author: I originally had something like you mentioned and the final editor recommended I change it.

===============================================================

A Virtual IoT box is a computer program that needs to be downloaded and installed on a Windows
computer. This requires a Windows operating system with an Odoo 16 or later database.

The Windows Virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box works the same way as a physical
:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box, with the ability to run most of the same devices. All
:abbr:`POS (Point of Sale)` devices work with it, such as a scale or printer. Payment terminals will
also work, but it should be noted that :abbr:`MRP (Material Requirement Planning)` devices are not

> compatible. These include cameras or measurement tools.

Author: This is a good idea, except I don't have the ability to do any testing (lack of devices), this information would need to come from the experts in SF and BE. Is that something that you can do? CC: @dara-odoo 

Thanks, 
Tim

> compatible. These include cameras or measurement tools.

Reviewer: Hey @tiku-odoo ! I can perform some testing to see which devices are compatible with the virtual IoT Software! The only things I cannot test are the following: 

1. Weighing scale (our scale in SF doesn't work, even when connected to the traditional IoT Box.
2. Any MRP tools like measurement tools; we don't have that here. 

Someone from BE should be able to test the rest (assuming there is at least one Windows machine over there).  I'll let you know what's compatible through here in a few days!

> compatible. These include cameras or measurement tools.

Reviewer: Hey @tiku-odoo !

Apologies for the delay. I did some testing and I can confirm that the following devices are compatible with both Physical and Virtual IoT based on the devices we have in the SF office. For devices not tested, we would need BE's input. (also I am not too sure how to submit this in the devices.rst file): 

-----------
SCREEN

- HDMI device: 
- Physical IoT: Compatible.
- Virtual IoT: Not Working/Not Compatible. Device connected via HDMI is not being detected in the Virtual IoT Box's configuration page. 

- Integrated display (Laptop):
- Physical IoT: Compatible
- Virtual IoT: Not Working/Not Compatible. See above reason. 

-----------
MEASUREMENT TOOL

Not tested in SF office; Does not have required device to test this on Physical or Virtual IoT. 

-----------
CAMERA

- Logitech (as suggested on our IoT Devices list): Not tested in the SF office; Does not have required device to test this on Physical or Virtual IoT.
- Non-Logitech:
- Physical IoT: Compatible via USB only.
- Virtual IoT: Not Working/Not Compatible. Camera connected via USB is not being detected in the Virtual IoT Box's configuration page. 

-----------
FOOTSWITCH

Not tested in the SF office; Does not have required device to test this on Physical or Virtual IoT.

-----------
PRINTERS

Receipt Printers

- Epson Printers (with ESC/POS protocol): 
- Physical IoT: Compatible; either connected via USB or via Network
- Virtual IoT: Compatible; either connected via USB or via Network. You would need to install the required drivers for the Epson printer to work on Virtual IoT.  

- Star-compatible Printers (with STAR protocol): Not tested in the SF office; Does not have required device to test this on Physical or Virtual IoT.

Receipt Printers > Cash Registers

- Epson Compatible: Can only be connected to an Epson printer using the serial/network cable. See "Epson Printers" for compatibility.
- USB: Not Compatible. 

 
Desktop Printers 

- Brother Inkjet/Laserjet: 
- Physical IoT: Compatible; either connected via USB or via Network. Must be detectible from the integrated CUPS server on the Physical IoT.  
- Virtual IoT: Compatible; either connected via USB or via Network. You would need to install the required drivers for the Desktop printer to work on Virtual IoT (no integrated CUPS server to be auto-detected). 

Label Printers

- Zebra Printers (with ZPL protocol): 
- Physical IoT: Compatible via USB only. 
- Virtual IoT: Not Working/Not Compatible. Windows drivers allow the printer to be seen on the computer and on the virtual IoT Software, but is not able to utilized when a report is assigned to the printer. Receives an "IoT Box is disconnected" error. 

-----------
SCALE

Not tested in the SF office; Current scale at SF office does not connect to IoT Box properly, even if it's a suggested scale. Cannot test on Physical or Virtual IoT.

Pre-requisites
==============

- Odoo 16 database

> - :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` compatible devices

Reviewer 2: Might be worth to add a .. seealso to the section with iot devices (or to the compatibility table I mentioned earlier)

Author: I've added the following: 

`- Odoo 16 database or any version above
- :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` compatible devices

  ..seealso::
    `Odoo's compatible IoT devices <https://www.odoo.com/app/iot-hardware>`_`

> - Device drivers for Windows.

Author: Good point I've added in the link: https://www.odoo.com/app/iot-hardware

> - Windows computer (laptop, desktop, server)

Reviewer 2: might be worth to precise which OS version we support (Windows 10 and > ?). I already foreseen some Windows XP customers complaining that it does not works (or 32bits/64 bits issues). Might be worth to check which Windows versions are really compatible

Author: Noted, I added that Odoo recommends an updated version of Windows as older versions can cause issues. This is a good point, thanks for adding this note.

Connect the Windows virtual Iot box to an Odoo database
=======================================================

#. Navigate to the Odoo 16 or higher installation package for Enterprise/Community Windows at
   `Odoo's Download Page <https://odoo.com/download>`_.

#. Install and setup the Odoo .exe file.

   After the instructions screen click :guilabel:`Next` to start the installation. Agree to the
   :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.

#. During the next step of the installation, select :guilabel:`Odoo IoT` from the :guilabel:`Select
   the type of install` dropdown.

   For reference, the following should be installed:

   - **Odoo server**
   - **Odoo IoT**
   - **Nginx WebServer**
   - **Ghostscript interpreter**

   Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation and click :guilabel:`Next`.

#. Select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder`.

   .. warning::
      Odoo's Windows virtual IoT software shouldn't be installed inside any of the Window's User's
      directories. Doing so won't allow for Nginx to initialize.

>    Choosing ``C:\odoo`` as the install location will allow for the Nginx server to start. Click

Reviewer 2: don't know if it will allow you if the "odoo" folder does not exists in C:. Can you confirm to me that it will create the folder if it does not exists ?

   :guilabel:`Install`.

#. Allow the installation to occur. This may take a few minutes. Click :guilabel:`Next` to continue.

#. Ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked and click :guilabel:`Finish`.

#. After installation, the Odoo server will run and automatically open ``localhost:8069`` on your
   web browser. The webpage should display the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box configuration
   page.

> #. Connect devices to Windows computer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Connect IoT devices to the Windows computer.
```

   the computer. If not, search for and install the Windows driver for the device.

#. Refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`  Box Configuration Page and verify the device is
   seen on the configuration page. If not, reload the handlers through the configuration page.

#. Connect Windows IoT to a database using existing instructions (manually using the Token).

   .. seealso::
      :doc:`connect`

#. Use the devices connected to :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` as you normally would.

Troubleshooting
===============

Virtual Windows IoT box not showing on the database
---------------------------------------------------

In some instances a manual restart of the physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can resolve
the issue. For the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box a manual restart of the Odoo
server can resolve database connection issues.

To restart the virtual Windows IoT server:

#. Type "Services" into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`
#. Select the :menuselection:`Services` App and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo` Service.
#. Right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start` or :guilabel:`Restart`. This action

>    will manually restart the Odoo IoT server.

Reviewer 2: As other issues might need to restart the IoT box, maybe it would be worth to have its dedicated section `Restart Windows IoT` and a link here ?

Author: I've added an anchor in here and also linked it on line 73 as a possible route to follow should the local host not populate.

> Windows Firewall

Reviewer 2: In practice, the "Windows firewall" is not the only cause, most of the anti-virus software will have their own firewall system. As such, maybe we should be more generic

Author: Noted, I've edited this to be more generic, good catch @lse-odoo

----------------

> The Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may not connect to the :abbr:`LAN
> (Local Area Network)` due to the Windows Firewall preventing the connection. Consult your local IT

Reviewer 2: Technically incorrect, the firewall can not prevent a device to connect in a network, it will blocked incoming and/or outgoing requests made with/from the device
```suggestion
The Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may be reachable in the :abbr:`LAN
(Local Area Network)` due to the Windows Firewall preventing the connection. Consult your local IT
```

support to make exceptions in the :abbr:`OS (Operating System)`.

> 

Reviewer 2: Could you check if "Network discovery" must be enabled in order to make it work on windows ?
See: https://www.makeuseof.com/windows-network-discovery-turn-on-off/
It would need to be check on both the Windows IoT computer and a Windows computer trying to reach the Windows IoT computer.
If it blocks connections, it might be worth to add a section asking to check to activate it.

Author: This gets too much into network configuration, I think this is enough info. Thanks.

=======================
Windows virtual IoT box
=======================

> Use Windows IoT software to connect devices to an Odoo database. The Virtual IoT box is a computer

Author: Thanks, I've added this in.

   :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.

#. During the next step of the installation, for the dropdown :guilabel:`Select the type of install`
   select :guilabel:`Odoo IoT`. The installation package will automatically select the required
   applications.

   For reference the following should be installed:\

   - **Odoo server**
   - **Odoo IoT**
   - **Nginx WebServer**
   - **Ghostscript interpreter**

   Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation and click :guilabel:`Next`.

#. Select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder`.

   .. warning::
      Odoo's Windows virtual IoT software shouldn't be installed inside any of the Window's User
      directories. Doing so won't allow for Nginx to initialize.

   Using ``C:\odoo`` will allow for the Nginx server to start. Click :guilabel:`Install`.

#. Allow the installation to occur. This may take a few minutes. Click :guilabel:`Next` to continue.

#. Ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked and click :guilabel:`Finish`.

#. After installation, the Odoo server will run and automatically open ``localhost:8069`` on your

>    web browser. The webpage should load into the IoT Box Configuration Page.

Author: I've reworded this, thanks for catching this.

   the computer. If not, search and install the Windows driver for their device.

#. Refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`  Box Configuration Page and verify the device is
   seen on the configuration page. If not, reload the handlers through the configuration page.

#. Connect Windows IoT to a database using existing instructions (manually using the Token).

   .. seealso::
      :doc:`connect`

#. Use the devices connected to :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` as you normally would.

Troubleshooting
===============

Virtual Windows IoT box not showing on the database
---------------------------------------------------

In some instances a manual restart of the physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can resolve
the issue. For the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box a manual restart of the Odoo
server can resolve database connection issues.

To restart the virtual Windows IoT server:

#. Type "Services" into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`
#. Select the :menuselection:`Services` App and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo` Service.
#. Right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start`. This action will manually restart

>    the Odoo IoT server.

Author: I've deleted it out, thanks.

Windows Firewall
----------------

The Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may not connect to the :abbr:`LAN
(Local Area Network)` due to the Windows Firewall preventing the connection. Consult your local IT
support to make exceptions in the :abbr:`OS (Operating System)`.

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

> Uninstalling the Windows virtual IoT is done through the Windows program manager. Search in any

Reviewer 3: Add "box"
```suggestion
Uninstalling the Windows virtual IoT box is done through the Windows program manager. Search in any
```

> Uninstalling the Windows virtual IoT is done through the Windows program manager. Search in any
> Windows version for ''program''. Select :guilabel:`Add or Remove Programs` located in the control
> panel. Search for ``Odoo`` and click the :guilabel:`three dot menu` to uninstall.

Reviewer 3: Rephrase; also, just searching "Odoo" may bring up multiple programs, so you should specify the exact name of the program being uninstalled
```suggestion
Uninstalling the Windows virtual IoT box is done through the Windows program manager. From the
:guilabel:`Start` menu, search for ''program''. Select :guilabel:`Add or Remove Programs` . In the window that appears, search for ``Odoo``, click the :guilabel:`three dot menu`, then select :guilabel:`Uninstall`.
```

Author: Odoo is the name of the program that should be uninstalled. I tested this a couple times. What did you encounter?

Author: Did you encounter multiple Odoo programs? The uninstall should be from Odoo and there are other programs that will be uninstalled.

> Confirm the uninstallation and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo 16.0 Uninstall guide.

Reviewer 3: Decaptialize uninstall; also, link to the uninstall guide
```suggestion
Confirm the uninstallation and follow the steps to uninstall through the Odoo 16.0 uninstall guide.
```

      :doc:`connect`

#. Use the devices connected to :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` as you normally would.

Troubleshooting
===============

.. _restart_windows_iot:

Restart Windows IOT box
-----------------------

In some instances a manual restart of the physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can resolve
the issue of an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box not showing up on the database. For the Windows
virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box a manual restart of the Odoo server can resolve
database connection issues.

To restart the virtual Windows IoT server:

#. Type "Services" into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`
#. Select the :menuselection:`Services` App and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo` Service.
#. Right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start` or :guilabel:`Restart`. This action
   will manually restart the Odoo IoT server.

Firewalls
---------

The Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may not be reachable to the
:abbr:`LAN (Local Area Network)` due to a firewall preventing the connection. Consult your local IT
support to make exceptions (network discovery) in the :abbr:`OS (Operating System)` or firewall

> program. Windows has their own firewall as well as other virus protection do too.

Reviewer 2: From a support point of view, I am a bit afraid that this part will be overlooked by customers as it is "too technical".
Don't you think it would be better to use an actual example ? Like:

"I can see the IoT box homepage from the Windows virtual computer, but can not access it from other computers/mobiles/tablet in the same network"

speaking about LAN will confuse most of the customers and we (the support) will likely lose time redirecting then to this part of the documentation. It might also be a good occasion to add a .seealso to
https://www.odoo.com/documentation/16.0/applications/productivity/iot/config/troubleshooting.html#my-iot-box-is-connected-to-my-database-but-cannot-be-reached

What do you think ?

Author: I've added this example into the doc. Thanks for suggesting @lse-odoo

=======================================================
Connecting the Windows IoT software to an Odoo database
=======================================================

> A Virtual IoT box is a computer program that needs to be downloaded and installed on a Windows

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A *Virtual IoT box* is a computer program that needs to be downloaded and installed on a Windows
```

:abbr:`POS (Point of Sale)` devices work with it, such as a scale or printer. Payment terminals will
also work, but it should be noted that :abbr:`MRP (Material Requirement Planning)` devices are not
compatible. *These include cameras or measurement tools.*

Pre-requisites
==============

- Odoo 16 database or any version above
- :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` compatible devices (except those mentioned above)

  .. seealso::
     `Odoo's compatible IoT devices <https://www.odoo.com/app/iot-hardware>`_

- Device drivers for Windows

  .. note::
     Odoo recommends using an updated, recent version of Windows as some older operating systems can
     cause the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` to not work.

- Windows computer (laptop, desktop, server)
- Odoo IoT subscription

  .. seealso::
     :ref:`iot/iot-eligibility`

Connect the Windows virtual Iot box to an Odoo database
=======================================================

#. Navigate to the Odoo 16 or higher installation package for Enterprise/Community Windows at
   `Odoo's Download Page <https://odoo.com/download>`_.

> #. Install and setup the Odoo .exe file.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Install and setup the Odoo :file:`.exe` file.
```

>    After the instructions screen click :guilabel:`Next` to start the installation. Agree to the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   After the :guilabel:`Instructions` screen click :guilabel:`Next` to start the installation. Agree
   to the :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.
```

   :abbr:`TOS (Terms of Service)`.

#. During the next step of the installation, select :guilabel:`Odoo IoT` from the :guilabel:`Select
   the type of install` dropdown.

   For reference, the following should be installed:

>    - **Odoo server**
>    - **Odoo IoT**
>    - **Nginx WebServer**
>    - **Ghostscript interpreter**

Reviewer 4: I had to add another space for these sub-bullet points to get the sentence after (in the parent bullet) to format correctly.

```suggestion
    - **Odoo server**
    - **Odoo IoT**
    - **Nginx WebServer**
    - **Ghostscript interpreter**
```

> 

Reviewer 4: Can remove this extra line
```suggestion
```

   Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation and click :guilabel:`Next`.

#. Select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder`.

   .. warning::
      Odoo's Windows virtual IoT software shouldn't be installed inside any of the Window's User's
      directories. Doing so won't allow for Nginx to initialize.

>    Choosing ``C:\odoo`` as the install location will allow for the Nginx server to start. Click

Reviewer 4: Only need one ` for a literal

```suggestion
   Choosing `C:\odoo` as the install location will allow for the Nginx server to start. Click
```

   :guilabel:`Install`. If the folder doesn't exist, then create it. Otherwise the installation
   files will be spread throughout the hard drive.

#. Allow the installation to occur. This may take a few minutes. Click :guilabel:`Next` to continue.

#. Ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked and click :guilabel:`Finish`.

> #. After installation, the Odoo server will run and automatically open ``localhost:8069`` on your

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. After installation, the Odoo server will run and automatically open `localhost:8069` on your
```

   web browser. The webpage should display the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box configuration
   page.

   .. seealso::
      A restart of the Windows IoT program may be necessary should the web browser not display
      anything. :ref:`restart_windows_iot`

#. Connect :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices to the Windows computer.

#. Windows should automatically detect the device because the driver is pre-installed on
   the computer. If not, search for and install the Windows driver for the device.

> #. Refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`  Box Configuration Page and verify the device is
>    seen on the configuration page. If not, reload the handlers through the configuration page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` Box :guilabel:`Configuration` page and verify the
   device is seen on the :guilabel:`Configuration` page. If not, reload the handlers through the
   :guilabel:`Configuration` page.
```

#. Connect Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` to a database using existing instructions
   (manually using the Token).

   .. seealso::

>       :doc:`connect`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      :doc:`/applications/productivity/iot/config/connect`
```

#. Use the devices connected to :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` as you normally would.

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

Troubleshooting
===============

> .. _restart_windows_iot:

Reviewer 4: Let's add the app in the anchor per [the guidelines](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/15.0/contributing/documentation/rst_guidelines.html#prefix-hyperlink-targets-with-application-names)

```suggestion
.. _productivity/restart_windows_iot:
```

Restart Windows IOT box
-----------------------

In some instances a manual restart of the physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can resolve
the issue of an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box not showing up on the database. For the Windows
virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box a manual restart of the Odoo server can resolve
database connection issues.

To restart the virtual Windows IoT server:

> #. Type "Services" into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Type `Services` into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`
```

#. Select the :menuselection:`Services` App and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo` Service.
#. Right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start` or :guilabel:`Restart`. This action
   will manually restart the Odoo IoT server.

Firewalls
---------

The Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may not be reachable to the
:abbr:`LAN (Local Area Network)` due to a firewall preventing the connection. Consult your local IT
support to make exceptions (network discovery) in the :abbr:`OS (Operating System)` or firewall
program. Windows has their own firewall as well as other virus protection do too.

.. example::
   A client might encounter a time when they are able to reach the homepage of the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, yet they cannot access it from another computer/mobile/tablet on the
   same network.

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is done through the Windows

> program manager. Search in any Windows version for ''program''. Select :guilabel:`Add or Remove
> Programs` located in the control panel. Search for ``Odoo`` and click the :guilabel:`three dot menu`
> to uninstall.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
program manager. Search in any Windows version for `program`. Select :menuselection:`Add or Remove
Programs` located in the :guilabel:`Control Panel`. Search for `Odoo` and click the :guilabel:`⋮
(three dot menu)` to uninstall.
```

support to make exceptions (network discovery) in the :abbr:`OS (Operating System)` or firewall
program. Windows has their own firewall as do other virus protection programs.

.. example::
   A client might encounter a time when they are able to reach the homepage of the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, yet they cannot access it from another computer/mobile/tablet on the
   same network.

Making an exception on Windows Defender
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It's possible to allow other devices to access the Windows Virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
box while keeping the firewall on. This is done by creating a rule on *Windows Defender* and
allowing communication through port `8069`. The following process describes the steps to take in
order to make this exception.

Navigating to Windows Defender to create the rule
*************************************************

First, open the *Windows Firewall* by navigating to the :guilabel:`Start Menu` and typing in
`Firewall`. Then open the :menuselection:`Windows Defender Firewall` program. In the left menu,
navigate to :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`.

> Following selecting :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`, select :guilabel:`Inbound Rules` in the left
> menu. Now in the right menu column, under :guilabel:`Inbound Rules`, and click on :guilabel:`New
> Rule`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once :guilabel:`Advanced Settings` have been selected, click :guilabel:`Inbound Rules` in the left-hand
menu. Then, in the right-hand menu column (under :guilabel:`Inbound Rules`), click on :guilabel:`New
Rule` to create a new rule.
```

Configure new rule
******************

> On the :menuselection:`Rule Type` screen, select :guilabel:`Port`. Then click :guilabel:`Next`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
From the *Rule Type* screen, select the :guilabel:`Port` option, and click :guilabel:`Next`.
```
I *think* for forms/pages/screens we're on, we wouldn't use `:menuselection:` tags. If I'm wrong though ignore that part of the change!

Author: I'm going to leave this in place, as it's a wizard and can be seen approved by ZST in Line 33 of [google_oauth.rst](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/pull/3965)

> Leave the rule application to :guilabel:`TCP` on the :menuselection:`Protocol and Ports` page.
> Select :guilabel:`Specific Local Ports` for :guilabel:`ports`. In the text box, type in `8069`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
From the *Protocol and Ports* page, leave the rule application as :guilabel:`TCP`. Then,
select :guilabel:`Specific Local Ports` for the :guilabel:`ports` option. In the text box, type in `8069`.
```
Again, if my suggestion above for referencing forms/screens/pages is wrong, disregard that part of this change

> Finally click :guilabel:`Next` to continue to the next step.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Finally, click :guilabel:`Next` to continue to the next step.
```

On the :menuselection:`Actions` page, select :guilabel:`Allow the connection` and click
:guilabel:`Next`. The following page on the :menuselection:`Rule Configuration` wizard is the

> :menuselection:`Profile` page. On this page select whichever connection type applies to the network

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Profile` page. On this page, select whichever connection type applies to the network
```

the Windows machine is operating on. Ideally, select :guilabel:`Private` only

> connections. Click :guilabel:`Next` to continue.

Reviewer 5: Why only private connections? A quick sentence to explain could help

Finally, name the rule. For example this can be `Odoo`. Optionally, add a brief description in the

> :guilabel:`Description` field. Click :guilabel:`Finish` to complete the *rule configuration*. Now

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Description` field. Click :guilabel:`Finish` to complete the *rule configuration*. Now,
```

the new rule is active and devices can connect to the Windows Virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box.

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is done through the Windows

> program manager. Search in any Windows version for ''program''. Select :guilabel:`Add or Remove

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
program manager. Using any Windows version, search for for ''program''.  Then, select :guilabel:`Add or Remove
```

=======================================================
Connecting the Windows IoT software to an Odoo database
=======================================================

> A Virtual IoT box is a computer program that needs to be downloaded and installed on a Windows

Reviewer 4: Unless it is a proper noun or is the name of the tool/module we shouldn't capitalize *virtual* in virtual IoT box. Looks like there are only a few of these throughout the doc that have the `V` capitalized :)
```suggestion
A virtual IoT box is a computer program that needs to be downloaded and installed on a Windows
```

computer. This requires a Windows operating system with an Odoo 16 or later database.

The Windows Virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box works the same way as a physical :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, with the ability to run most of the same devices. All :abbr:`POS (Point
of Sale)` devices work with it, such as a scale or printer. Payment terminals will also work, but it
should be noted that :abbr:`MRP (Material Requirement Planning)` devices are not compatible. *These
include cameras or measurement tools.*

Pre-requisites
==============

> The following items will be needed to complete the Windows IoT installation.

Reviewer 4: Keep consistent abbreviation use throughout doc :)
```suggestion
The following items will be needed to complete the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
installation.
```

- Odoo 16 database or any version above.
- :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` compatible devices (except those mentioned above). Refer to:
  `Odoo's compatible IoT devices <https://www.odoo.com/app/iot-hardware>`_.
- Device drivers for Windows.

  .. note::
     Odoo recommends using an updated, recent version of Windows as some older operating systems can
     cause the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` to not work.

- Windows computer (laptop, desktop, server).
- Odoo :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` subscription. Refer to: :ref:`iot/iot-eligibility`.

Connect the Windows virtual Iot box to an Odoo database
=======================================================

The Windows virtual IoT box is simple to setup in just a few easy steps. Follow this process when
installing the Windows virtual IoT software for the first time.

Download and initial installation
---------------------------------

To begin the installation, navigate to the Odoo 16 or higher installation package for Enterprise or

> Community Windows at `Odoo's Download Page <https://odoo.com/download>`_. Next, Install and setup

Reviewer 4: maintain sentence case in the hyperlink, and lowercase _install_
```suggestion
Community Windows at `Odoo's download page <https://odoo.com/download>`_. Next, install and setup
```

> the Odoo `.exe` file. After the instructions screen, click :guilabel:`Next` to start the

Reviewer 4: Totally optional - Im a fan of using the :file: tag for file extentions and filenames :)
```suggestion
the Odoo :file:`.exe` file. After the instructions screen, click :guilabel:`Next` to start the
```

type of install` dropdown.

.. example::
   For reference, the following should be installed:

   - **Odoo server**
   - **Odoo IoT**
   - **Nginx WebServer**
   - **Ghostscript interpreter**

Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation and click :guilabel:`Next`.

Setting the destination and completing the installation
-------------------------------------------------------

To complete the installation, select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder`. Choosing ``C:\odoo`` as the
install location will allow for the Nginx server to start. Click :guilabel:`Install`. If the folder
doesn't exist, then create it. Otherwise the installation files will be spread throughout the hard
drive. Allow the installation to occur. This may take a few minutes. Click :guilabel:`Next` to
continue.

.. warning::
   Odoo's Windows virtual IoT software shouldn't be installed inside any of the Window's User's
   directories. Doing so won't allow for Nginx to initialize.

Ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked and click :guilabel:`Finish`. After
installation, the Odoo server will run and automatically open `http://localhost:8069` on your web

> browser. The webpage should display the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` *box home page*

Reviewer 4: Missing period and can remove italic formatting
```suggestion
browser. The webpage should display the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box home page.
```

Author: @StraubCreative This is the label of the page, I originally didn't have this italicized, but the expert pointed this out. I'm okay with either way, not a big deal in my opinion. We will have to implement in the IoT bundle PR if there are changes though (PR  #3673). I can double check the label as well on this.

.. seealso::
   A restart of the Windows IoT program may be necessary should the web browser not display
   anything. :ref:`restart_windows_iot`

Connecting devices
------------------

Next, connect the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices to the Windows computer. Windows should
automatically detect the device because the driver is pre-installed on the computer. If not, search
for and install the Windows driver for the device.

> Following connecting devices to the computer, refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` *box
> home page* and verify the device is seen. If not, reload the handlers through the :abbr:`IoT
> (Internet of Things)` *box home page*.

Reviewer 4: early 100th char line break
```suggestion
Following connecting devices to the computer, refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` *box home
page* and verify the device is seen. If not, reload the handlers through the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` *box home page*.
```

Finally, connect Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` to a database using existing instructions
(manually using the Token).

.. seealso::

>    :doc:`connect`

Reviewer 4: please use global relative paths for doc tags :)
```suggestion
   :doc:`/applications/productivity/iot/config/connect`
```

Now the installation is complete, the devices connected to :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` can be
used to complete processes/actions.

Troubleshooting
===============

> .. _restart_windows_iot:

Reviewer 4: please add the app name to the custom anchor (don't forget to update the corresponding :ref: tag)
```suggestion
.. _iot/restart_windows_iot:
```

> Restart Windows IOT box

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Restart Windows IoT box
```

-----------------------

In some instances a manual restart of the physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can resolve
the issue of an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box not showing up on the database. For the Windows
virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box a manual restart of the Odoo server can resolve
database connection issues.

To restart the virtual Windows IoT server:

> #. Type "Services" into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`

Reviewer 4: Please use pre formatting for user inputs. Also missing a period

> #. Select the :menuselection:`Services` App and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo` Service.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Select the :menuselection:`Services` App and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Odoo` service.
```

#. Right click on :guilabel:`Odoo` and select :guilabel:`Start` or :guilabel:`Restart`. This action
   will manually restart the Odoo IoT server.

Firewalls
---------

Firewalls keep devices safe and secure. Sometimes they can block connections that should be made
though. The Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box software may not be reachable to
the :abbr:`LAN (Local Area Network)` due to a firewall preventing the connection. Consult your local
IT support to make exceptions (network discovery) in the :abbr:`OS (Operating System)` or firewall
program. Windows has their own firewall as do other virus protection programs.

.. example::
   A client might encounter a time when they are able to reach the homepage of the :abbr:`IoT
   (Internet of Things)` box, yet they cannot access it from another computer/mobile device/tablet
   on the same network.

Making an exception on Windows Defender
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> It's possible to allow other devices to access the Windows Virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's possible to allow other devices to access the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
```

box while keeping the firewall on. This is done by creating a rule on *Windows Defender* and
allowing communication through port `8069`. The following process describes the steps to take in
order to make this exception.

Navigating to Windows Defender to create the rule
*************************************************

First, open the *Windows Firewall* by navigating to the :menuselection:`Start Menu` and typing in
`Firewall`. Then, open the :menuselection:`Windows Defender Firewall` program. In the left-hand
menu, navigate to :guilabel:`Advanced Settings`.

Once :guilabel:`Advanced Settings` have been selected, click :guilabel:`Inbound Rules` in the
left-hand menu. Then, in the right-hand menu column (under :guilabel:`Inbound Rules`), click on
:guilabel:`New Rule` to create a new rule.

Configure new rule
******************

On the :menuselection:`Rule Type` screen, select :guilabel:`Port`. Then click :guilabel:`Next`.

> From the :menuselection:`Protocol and Ports` page leave the rule application to :guilabel:`TCP`.

Reviewer 4: Early 100th char line break

Then, select :guilabel:`Specific Local Ports` for the :guilabel:`ports` option. In the text box,
type in `8069`. Finally click :guilabel:`Next` to continue to the next step.

On the :menuselection:`Actions` page, select :guilabel:`Allow the connection` and click
:guilabel:`Next`. The following page on the :menuselection:`Rule Configuration` wizard is the
:menuselection:`Profile` page. On this page, select whichever connection type applies to the network
the Windows machine is operating on. Ideally, select :guilabel:`Private` only

> connections. The *Private* connection type is the most secure connection while allowing the selected

Reviewer 4: early 100th char line breaks

port to communicate. Click :guilabel:`Next` to continue.

Finally, assign a new, unique name to the rule. For example, this name can be `Odoo`. Optionally,
add a brief description in the :guilabel:`Description` field. Click :guilabel:`Finish` to complete

> the *rule configuration*. Now, the new rule is active and devices can connect to the Windows Virtual

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the *rule configuration*. Now, the new rule is active and devices can connect to the Windows virtual
```

:abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

Uninstalling Windows IoT
------------------------

Uninstalling the Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box is done through the Windows

> program manager. Using any Windows version, search for for `program`.  Then, select :guilabel:`Add

Reviewer 4: duplicate word
```suggestion
program manager. Using any Windows version, search for `program`.  Then, select :guilabel:`Add
```

=======================================================
Connecting the Windows IoT software to an Odoo database
=======================================================

A Virtual IoT box is a computer program that needs to be downloaded and installed on a Windows
computer. This requires a Windows operating system with an Odoo 16 or later database.

The Windows virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box works the same way as a physical :abbr:`IoT
(Internet of Things)` box, with the ability to run most of the same devices. All :abbr:`POS (Point
of Sale)` devices work with it, such as a scale or printer. Payment terminals will also work, but it
should be noted that :abbr:`MRP (Material Requirement Planning)` devices are not compatible. *These
include cameras or measurement tools.*

Pre-requisites
==============

The following items will be needed to complete the Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)`
installation.

- Odoo 16 database or any version above.
- :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` compatible devices (except those mentioned above). Refer to:
  `Odoo's compatible IoT devices <https://www.odoo.com/app/iot-hardware>`_.
- Device drivers for Windows.

  .. note::

>      Odoo recommends using an updated, recent version of Windows as some older operating systems can

Author: I've added in to use 10/11.

type of install` dropdown.

.. example::
   For reference, the following should be installed:

   - **Odoo server**
   - **Odoo IoT**
   - **Nginx WebServer**
   - **Ghostscript interpreter**

Ensure there is enough space on the computer for the installation and click :guilabel:`Next`.

Setting the destination and completing the installation
-------------------------------------------------------

To complete the installation, select the :guilabel:`Destination Folder`. Choosing ``C:\odoo`` as the
install location will allow for the Nginx server to start. Click :guilabel:`Install`. If the folder
doesn't exist, then create it. Otherwise the installation files will be spread throughout the hard
drive. Allow the installation to occur. This may take a few minutes. Click :guilabel:`Next` to
continue.

.. warning::
   Odoo's Windows virtual IoT software shouldn't be installed inside any of the Window's User's
   directories. Doing so won't allow for Nginx to initialize.

Ensure that the :guilabel:`Start Odoo` box is checked and click :guilabel:`Finish`. After
installation, the Odoo server will run and automatically open `http://localhost:8069` on your web

> browser. The webpage should display the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` *box home page*

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
browser. The webpage should display the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` *box home page*.
```

Reviewer 4: Still missing a period here 🙂

.. seealso::
   A restart of the Windows IoT program may be necessary should the web browser not display
   anything. :ref:`iot/restart_windows_iot`

Connecting devices
------------------

Next, connect the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` devices to the Windows computer. Windows should
automatically detect the device because the driver is pre-installed on the computer. If not, search

> for and install the Windows driver for the device.

Author: Not that I know of; these are Windows-based drivers. They can vary by the device manufacturer.

Following connecting devices to the computer, refresh the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` *box home
page* and verify the device is seen. If not, reload the handlers through the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of

> Things)` *box home page*.

Author: Noted, I've rechecked the label and there is no title, nor label. I've removed the formatting per Sam @samueljlieber 
![iot-configuration](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/91896312/3f82a21f-b88e-4030-8ed8-a4aa94e048c8)

> Things)` *box home page*.

Author: New formatting: :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage

Finally, connect Windows :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` to a database using existing instructions
(manually using the Token).

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/productivity/iot/config/connect`

Now the installation is complete, the devices connected to :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` can be
used to complete processes/actions.

Troubleshooting
===============

.. _iot/restart_windows_iot:

Restart Windows IoT box
-----------------------

In some instances a manual restart of the physical :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box can resolve
the issue of an :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box not showing up on the database. For the Windows
virtual :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box a manual restart of the Odoo server can resolve
database connection issues.

To restart the virtual Windows IoT server:

> #. Type `Services` into the :guilabel:`Search Bar`.

Author: Added in Windows
